---
slug: release-0.9.5
title: PPSSPP 0.9.5 released!
authors:
  name: Henrik Rydgård
  title: PPSSPP Founder
  url: https://github.com/hrydgard
  image_url: https://github.com/hrydgard.png
tags: [releases]
---

## PPSSPP one year anniversary - 0.9.5 released!

Two months since the last release, and today's the 1-year anniversary of the PPSSPP project! What better day to release a new version?

While nothing is perfect, there have been plenty of improvements since the last one, much thanks to all our contributors! Here's a shortlist of top new features:

* Atrac3+ plugin no longer required! Thanks Maxim for hard reverse-engineering work
* Many, many emulation fixes, including:
* bezier/spline curve support, fixing Loco Roco and others
* stencil clear emulation, fixing Final Fantasy IV text
* Android-x86 support
* Post-processing shaders like FXAA, scanlines, vignette
* More solid save states (we will try to keep them working from now on. Save states only upgrade forward, not backward to older versions though)
* Change render resolution independently of window size
* Massive debugger improvements on Windows, by Kingcom and unknownbrackets (GE)
* Win32 menu bar is now translatable. Language changes are applied instantly.
* Win32: Ability to store PPSSPP's config files and memory stick files in places other than the same directory
* Qt audio fixed, Symbian audio and ffmpeg is now threaded for more consistent media processing
* Haptic feedback support for mobile devices
* Accurate system information for mobile devices
* Analog controller support for Blackberry
* Windows installer (coming soon)
* Enjoy!

Please note that it often takes a few hours to roll out an update on Google Play, so you may not see it immediately.
