---
slug: release-0.9
title: PPSSPP 0.9 is finally out!
authors: hrydgard
tags: [releases]
---

## August 21, 2013: 0.9.1 fixes a couple of bugs

0.9 was a big release and a couple of bad bugs slipped through, including a crash bug in the settings menu and a bug that turned on error reporting for everyone, which is a bit much for our server. So 0.9.1 is just a boring bugfix release, but please install it! :)

[Gameplay Videos!](https://forums.ppsspp.org/showthread.php?tid=574)

## August 20, 2013: 0.9 is finally out! Enjoy!

Nearly two months of no release are over, and a new PPSSPP is out. As always, there have been incredible progress:

* Much improved control mapping, and autoconfig for a few devices like Shield
* Large speed boosts in many games
* Improved touchscreen control latency, important for rhythm games
* Huge improvements to our internal PSP debugger by Kingcom!
* A number of new games became compatible, such as Final Fantasy Tactics which just has some audio issues left.
* A completely redesigned user interface, unlike the previous static one this one can grow with the emulator and has * keyboard/controller navigation support, for the full lean-back experience!
* Improved frameskipping, increasing playability on slower devices.
* So get downloading and enjoy! And thank all the contributors for their incredible work.

The Android version will automatically upgrade during the next few hours if you installed it from Google Play.

If you bought the Gold version for Windows before, just use the email you got to log in and download the update.
