---
slug: release-0.9.6
title: PPSSPP 0.9.6 is here!
authors:
  name: Henrik Rydgård
  title: PPSSPP Founder
  url: https://github.com/hrydgard
  image_url: https://github.com/hrydgard.png
tags: [releases]
---

## December 12, 2013: Fixed crash bug

A bug snuck in that causes the game list on Android to either display a blank or crash if it sees a ZIP or RAR file.

This has now been fixed and been pushed to Google Play, and the downloads on this site have been updated.

## December 12, 2013: 0.9.6 is here!

That's right, it's here, in good time for the holidays! This time the main focus has been on speed improvements, but there has obviously been quite a few bug fixes as well, and a new lighter look for the on screen touch controls. Enjoy! And if you're having fun, don't forget to support the project by buying the Gold version.

* Large general speed improvements and assorted bug fixes
* "Software Skinning" option which speeds up many games with animated 3D characters
* (but may slow down a few, like Monster Hunter - experiment with turning it off)
* Various fixes around stencil/alpha, reducing glow problems in Wipeout and Gods Eater Burst.
* Timing improvements making more games run at the correct FPS, also fixing some audio issues
* More debugger features
* Better looking and individually resizable touch controls
* Automatic install of games from ZIP files, like demos and many homebrew.
* Software renderer improvements
* VERY basic ad-hoc online play support, to be improved in future versions.
* And more...
