---
slug: release-1.0
title: 1.0!
authors:
  name: Henrik Rydgård
  title: PPSSPP Founder
  url: https://github.com/hrydgard
  image_url: https://github.com/hrydgard.png
tags: [releases]
---

Finally, 1.0 is out, with a ton of new improvements! Note that it can take a while for it to become available in the Play store, depending on your location and Google's datacenters.

Full improvements list:

* Many, many bug fixes in JIT and elsewhere, improving compatibility
* Proper fix for Zenfone and related devices
* Direct3D 9 supported as a rendering backend on Windows, helps on old GPUs and can be faster than OpenGL in many cases
* You can now create specific configs per game
* FPU rounding modes much better supported, fixes the Peace Walker boss that was undefeatable. NOTE: This breaks saves in Gods Eater - you must turn off the better rounding, load your save game, turn it on and save.
* The JIT now uses SSE on x86, improving speed considerably. This does not affect ARM devices, that's for the next version or two.
* Improved audio output code on both Windows and Android, reducing audio latency on Windows and on some Android systems
* FFMPEG upgraded, fixed some music hangs ("GHA phase shifts")
* Some Ad Hoc improvements, coldbird.net is now default adhoc server. Ad Hoc still unfinished and hard to use.
* Graphics fixes: Bezier/spline drawing fixes, vertex position fixes, DanganRonpa on Adreno fixed, flat shading fixed, vertex cache improved, some PowerVR blockiness issues fixed, screen scaling filter added, Google Cardboard support
* Simulate UMD speed better, fixing hangs in several games
* More Atrac3 fixes, fixing hangs
* Somewhat better disk full handling
* Fixes to dynamic unloading of code, fixing problems in GEB and TRM 2/3
* Updated to SDL2 where applicable (Linux, Mac)
* Some new features, like analog/dpad-swap hotkey, graphics hack for Phantasy Star, show last bit of debug log in dev tools, etc
* No more need for MSVCRT DLLs on Windows

Enjoy!
