---
slug: release-1.5
title: PPSSPP 1.5 - Vulkan is here!
authors:
  name: Henrik Rydgård
  title: PPSSPP Founder
  url: https://github.com/hrydgard
  image_url: https://github.com/hrydgard.png
tags: [releases]
---

## December 5, 2017: PPSSPP 1.5.4, - more crashfixes, mostly Vulkan

Another quick update to take care of some common crashes.

## November 30, 2017: PPSSPP 1.5.2, - fixes for common crashes

Released a quick update to take care of some common crashes in 1.5.

## November 29, 2017: PPSSPP 1.5 - Vulkan is here!

1.5 has support for Vulkan, the new faster way to draw graphics. Supported on many modern Android devices, and if enabled (change Backend in Graphics settings) you will see a massive speed boost. PPSSPP 1.5 also has the usual assortment of fixes:

* Full Vulkan support, also for Android now. Very fast on supported devices. (#10033, #10049)
* Smarter graphics state management, reduced CPU consumption on all backends (#9899)
* Android: Support for Arabic and other scripts we couldn't support before
* Fix Android widgets, screen scaling (#10145)
* Fixes to video dumping
* Geometry problems fixed in Medal of Honor
* Implement immediate draws, fixing Thrillville (#7459)
* Software rendering improvements, speed and accuracy
* Hardware tesselation of PSP Beziers and Splines (used by a few games)
* Partial sceUsbGps and sceUsbCam support (Android)
* Android "Sustained performance mode" to avoid thermal throttling (#9901)
* Linux controller mapping fixes (#9997)
* Assorted bugfixes and compatibility improvements
* Note that Google Play might take a day or two to update, I'm doing a slow rollout this time to catch unexpected crashes from the new Vulkan backend etc. Some issues have been found already, fixes will be made.
