---
slug: upcoming-changes
title: PPSSPP 1.19.1 and upcoming changes
authors: hrydgard
tags: [releases]
---

A small bugfix update to 1.19, called 1.19.1 is out now. See [here](/news/release-1.19) for details.

EDIT: Additionally, 1.19.2 is out now.

[Download now!](/download)!

## Upcoming changes

From now on, major releases will be yearly, instead twice a year. Due to the additional platforms supported, the release process is longer and more complicated than ever, so it doesn't make sense to do it too often. The plan is to make a new major release every spring, probably March or April.

Additionally, upcoming requirements from Android means that we will soon have to update an important development tool (the NDK) to a newer release, which will force us to drop support for the very oldest versions of Android. Not to worry too much though, as the current estimation is that we'll still be able to support Android 5.0 (Lollipop), which is still very, very old!

It's possible that we will also end up dropping support for iOS 12, setting 13 as the new minimum, but I'm not certain of that yet.

The above should affect very few devices out there, so most likely you won't notice any of this.

Another new thing is that in the next release, the "Windows ARM64" release will be considered officially supported. This doesn't make much difference though as it already worked well, but I now have a device to test it on! ARM64 is the CPU architecture (or rather, ISA) used by processors like the Qualcomm Snapdragon and Apple Silicon. The former is starting to show up in PC laptops and is performing really well in my testing, much like the latter.
