---
slug: 1-18-release-announcement
title: 1.18 is here!
authors: hrydgard
tags: [ppsspp]
---

## PPSSPP 1.18 - announcement and progress report

PPSSPP 1.18 is now out, find downloads on the [download page](/download)!

If you're on Android and already have it installed from Google Play, your update will arrive within a week ([to catch crashes early](/docs/reference/android-release-process)).

iOS will also receive the update on the App Store. Howevwer, the Apple Store review process has been problematic recently (if this continues, a lengthy write-up is coming...), so it may take a quite long time before it's up, unfortunately.

For details on the changes, see the [news item](/news/release-1.18).

[Download now!](/download)

## Overview of fixes in 1.18

* iOS support is now official and has been greatly improved, compared to old side-loaded builds. It's now nearly feature complete, only missing microphone emulation and a few minor UX things like easily setting a background image in the menu. A lot of iOS-specific optimizations have been implemented to keep performance as good as possible, even though we can't use JIT.
* A lot of potential crashes have been fixed, both in-game and in the UI
* A number of rendering and video playback problems have been fixed
* Input changes: More mappable actions, the AxisSwap feature has been fixed
* UI changes: Game info can be reached in-game, you can install savegames directly from zip files, etc
* The Android VR build got "immersive mode" which makes better use of the built-in motion compensation, and many other fixes. Lubos explans it in this [video](https://youtu.be/1w5PMFZLUyM?feature=shared).
* And of course a huge amount of small bugfixes and performance improvements around the code base.

Enjoy!