---
slug: 1-17-release-announcement
title: 1.17 is out!
authors: hrydgard
tags: [ppsspp]
---

## PPSSPP 1.17 - release announcement and progress report

PPSSPP 1.17 is now out! Get it on the [download page](/download)! If you're on Android and already have it installed from Google Play, your update will arrive within a week ([to catch crashes early](/docs/reference/android-slow-release)).

For fine details, see the [news item](/news/release-1.17).

[Download now!](/download)

## Beta program

For the first time, you can now sign up to receive beta versions automatically. This is easier and safer than installing APKs from the buildbot, and you make a valuable contribution to development. [See details here](/docs/development/beta-testing).

## CHD support

CHD was originally a format for compressing hard drives from arcade games in MAME, but has since became the most popular format for storing ISOs for CD- and DVD-based video game consoles. PSP already has a different format, CSO, which can be used to similarly loss-lessly compress ISOs, and as a bonus, unlike CHD, these actually work on the real hardware.

So you might ask, why support CHD? It does provide a slightly better compression ratio, but the main reason is that it's simply been requested a lot. Many people seem to familiarize themselves with a set of tools, and since CHD works to compress ISOs for most other systems, people just want to stick with it. So now we support it.

## Important fixes in 1.17

* Several serious hangs and crashes that could happen when switching away from the app, especially from the pause screen, have been fixed.
* Multiple rendering issues have been fixed, and rendering performance has been further optimized.
* PPSSPP now tracks total time played per game, you can check it in the info screen for each game (long press the icon).
* Some new UI features, like the ability to keep the game running behind the pause menu overlay.
* Many input fixes, especially around deadzone handling for both analog stick and tilt control.
* Many bugfixes around texture replacement.
* Input latency has been greatly improved on the SDL build with Vulkan. Don't use OpenGL on Linux if you can avoid it.
* For [RetroAchievements](/docs/reference/retro-achievements), renamed the Challenge mode to Hardcore mode and made it the default, as is standard.

For a more detailed changelog, see the [release notes](/news/release-1.17).
