---
slug: 1-19-release-announcement
title: 1.19 is here and it's big!
authors: hrydgard
tags: [ppsspp]
---

PPSSPP 1.19 is now available! Get it on the [download page](/download) for PC or Mac! If you're on Android and already have it installed from Google Play, your update will arrive within a week ([to catch crashes early](/docs/reference/android-release-process)).

On iOS, the release will take a little more time due to the Apple review process.

[Download now!](/download)

## Important fixes in 1.19

For the detailed list of changes, see the [news item](/news/release-1.19).

### Re-engineered Atrac3+ music player

Atrac3+ is one of Sony's proprietary compressed audio format, and it's widely used in PSP games for audio. Playback is done through a pretty abstract library that is built into the PSP firmware, but often is also shipped on disc.

Our previous implementation was mostly based on guesswork and vibes, but this time I've reverse engineered in detail how it works, mainly through intense testing on hardware. This has fixed a large number of long-standing compatibility problems - for example, the music in Flatout now finally works correctly.

Additionally, some other tricky uses of Atrac3+ playback now work better, such as using it through the sceSas mixer.

### Support for "Infrastructure" multiplayer

Previously, there were a few "forks" of PPSSPP going on adding support for connecting to resurrected multiplayer servers for certain games. Mainly, one made by ANR2ME. Now the official versions of PPSSPP has this built-in, and with automatic configuration! See [Infrastructure](/docs/multiplayer/infrastructure-servers).

Also, a few AdHoc-related bugs were squashed, thanks ANR2ME for helping track those down, too.

### New ImGui-based debugger

PPSSPP now has a native built-in cross-platform debugger, ImDebugger. It supports stepping through both CPU code and GPU draw calls.

### Many rendering and performance fixes

As usual there have been a plethora of fixes, including Persona 1/2 battle transitions, smoke effects in Jak'n'Daxter, lens flare fixes in multiple games, performance improvements in Motorstorm and Outrun, etc.

Also there have been a lot of performance and crash fixes in the UI.

### "LLE" some modules

We have now switched over to loading and actually running a few modules/libraries that games ship on disc, instead of simulating them. These are scePsmf and sceCcc. Especially our implementation of the former had some serious bugs, like the one that caused Socom Fireteam Bravo 3 to crash - now that bug is just gone.

<strong>And much more!</strong>