---
slug: 1-20-4-release-announcement
title: 1.20.4 - ad hoc live status and more!
authors: hrydgard
tags: [ppsspp]
---

1.20.4 is out!

It's an unusually big followup release, big enough to get its own announcement page. Given the recent development in the adhoc multiplayer space, we needed to get something out to cover the long gap to 1.21, which is planned for Christmas.

[Download now!](/download)

## Changes in 1.20.4

### Ad-hoc live status display

The biggest change is that adhoc servers can now have live status displayed directly in the app, where you can see what games are being played, and by who. Not all servers support this yet, however. If you are a server owner and want to support it, see [this page](docs/multiplayer/adhoc-server-status/).

### UI improvements

Our RetroAchievements support can now handle subsets in a better way - on the achievements screen, they end up on different tab pages, making it far more manageable to browse achievements.

On desktop, you can now type-to-search on all three main tabs, and in the cheat list interface.

The "Auto" screen rotation mode on Android now overrides the OS screen rotation lock.

### New features

Deep links are now supported on iOS, this may be useful for some front-end users.

7z files can now be automatically decompressed.

### Important bug fixes

* GPU texture upscaling was previously partially broken on most mobile devices, it would sometimes stop upscaling for no reason. This has been fixed. Additionally, two new texture upscalers have been added, NNEDI3 (neural upscaling) and Spline36.

* A long-standing crash bug affecting games like GTA occasionally, but much more often when modded with higher poly assets, has been fixed.

* Lens flares now occlude properly in the Syphon Filter games. This was previously stated to be fixed, but an important case was missed - the game draws a lot of geometry with backface culling off, which was drawn with backface culling on to our software Z-buffer, causing missed occlusions.

* The file and image browsers stopped working on some rare devices. This has been fixed.

### And more!

For a more complete list of fixes, see [the release page](/news/release-1.20.4).

Enjoy!