---
slug: 1-20-release-announcement
title: 1.20 - all sorts of improvements!
authors: hrydgard
tags: [ppsspp]
---

PPSSPP 1.20 is here - or actually 1.20.1, due to a build system mishap I had to increment the version immediately. Get it on the [download page](/download) for PC or Mac! If you're on Android and already have it installed from Google Play, your update will arrive within a week ([to catch crashes early](/docs/reference/android-release-process)).

iOS bug alert!
--------------

The iOS version is out now, BUT, it has a bug - multitouch is broken if Backend is set to OpenGL. Change it to Vulkan and it will work, fix coming soon.


[Download now!](/download)

## Changes in 1.20

For the detailed list of changes since the 1.19.x series, see the [news item](/news/release-1.20).

### Major UI improvements

The UI has been re-engineered to support both landscape and portrait layouts - previously landscape layout was simply squished into portrait which didn't look good nor did it work well. Additionally, screen rotation support has been added to the iOS version, which previously lacked it. Also, now touch control layouts and the display layout configuration are separate between portrait and landscape, which simply makes sense.

A large number of icons have been drawn and added to the UI, which makes it friendlier and easier to navigate (and they're now resolution-independent, so look sharper).

### Ad hoc multiplayer - support for "relay servers"

Relay servers, or "aemu postoffice", are a new innovation in the PSP adhoc multiplayer space - they make it far easier to configure, since you no longer have to mess with opening ports in your firewall etc. These are now automatically used for popular servers, and for other servers you can choose whether to try to use them or not.

For a technical overview, see the [aemu postoffice design doc](https://github.com/Kethen/aemu_postoffice/blob/main/design.md).

### Rendering and performance fixes

Multiple graphical fixes have been done for Tales of Phantasia X, which recently received an English translation patch.

VSync now works a bit differently - you almost always want to have it on now. If you had it off before, try turning it on and making sure that "Low latency display" is on.

Brave Story performance has been drastically improved - if you used a lower resolution to play this game before, feel free to crank it up again.

A major glitch has been fixed in ATV: Offroad fury. Curiously this was caused by a rare CPU emulation bug, and only happened on ARM64 processors.

Outrun 2006 no longer has slowdowns, no more need to overclock emulation.

### Smooth playback mode for audio

In Audio settings, you'll find the new "smooth" playback mode. This greatly reduces glitches when there are slowdowns in games, due to slow file access or background tasks on Android, or just insufficient performance. Since it slightly increases audio latency, it's not on by default, but on lower performance devices it really improves the experience.

### Windows for ARM64 is now supported

It already mostly worked fine, but now this version is now officially supported and a few fixes have been made, so it can now be considered finished and supported. If you're using one of the new Snapdragon laptops, this is good news.

### Android support

Unfortunately, due to changes in the Android platform, we had to drop support for the very oldest versions of Android. However, Android 5.0 and forward is still supported, and I don't anticipate raising the floor again anytime soon. Android 5 was released 12 years ago in 2014, so that's still pretty good support!

### Controller fixes

There's now native support for DualShock, DualSense and experimental support for Switch Pro controllers on Windows. These previously had various glitches or didn't work at all - now they all work, and you can even get tilt input from DualSense.

### Important regression fixes

A crash in 7th Dragon has been fixed, music is working again in Tony Hawk's Project 8, and adhoc multiplayer works again in the Syphon Filter games.

### Other improvements

There's also been a large amount of smaller improvements, see the full list in the [news item](/news/release-1.20)!

<strong>And much more!</strong>